# Resource pools

Resource pools are the cost center units of Nuvolos. Resource pools are associated to the [tree structure](../../our-features/data-organization/) of Nuvolos. Organizations and spaces can be completely or partially mapped to Nuvolos via the management view of the Nuvolos resource control center.

## Resource pool mappings

We call associations between resource pools and Nuvolos objects _mappings._ The following type of objects can be mapped to resource pools:

* **Organizations**: An entire organization may be mapped to a resource pool. This means that all resource usage in the organization will be billed against the corresponding resource pool.
* **Spaces:** An entire space may be mapped to a resource pool. All usage in the space will be billed against the corresponding resource pool.
* **Specific resource**\(s\) **in a space**: A particular resource or set of resources may be mapped to a resource pool. This means that for example scaled computation may be mapped to a different resource pool in a space then all other resources.

{% hint style="info" %}
It is not possible to map a specific resource in all organization objects to a particular resource pool - this can only be done on a space by space basis.
{% endhint %}

### **Resource types**

The following resource types are available for mapping in Nuvolos currently \(the list may change with time as our offering evolves\):

* **File system storage**: File system storage currently used by the user.
* **Database storage**: Database storage in the Nuvolos Scientific Data Warehouse allocated to the user.
* **Database computation**: Database computation used by querying the Nuvolos Scientific Data Warehouse.
* **HPC interactive computation**: Any usage generated by using the [interactive high performance computing](../../research/hpc-interactive.md) feature of Nuvolos.
* **HPC batch computation**: Any usage generated by using the [batch high performance computing feature](../../research/high-performance-computing.md) of Nuvolos.
* Professional services: Professional services carried out by the Nuvolos team, on agreed terms.
* **Nuvolos Compute Units**: General application runs, which count against the package based quota specified in the service agreement.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Resource mappings are atomic: it is not possible to split the usage of a particular resource in a space between multiple resource pools. Consequently it is **not** possible to:

* Split the file system storage between "normal" and "extra" and only allocate the "extra" to your resource pool. 
* Split the interactive high performance computation costs in a particular space between resource pools depending on the node pool being used.

If you require such fine-grained splitting of resources, we suggest creating multiple spaces.
{% endhint %}

## Resource pool roles

The role structure of resource pool builds on top of the Nuvolos role hierarchy, while adding an additional administrative role. With respect to resource usage, you may anticipate the following patterns:

* **Instance viewers** cannot generate and resource consumption. Instance viewers may check the overall budget of their resource pool.
* **Instance editors** are able to generate resource consumption but they will not induce any change in the resource mappings of a resource pool. Instance editors may check the overall budget of their resource pool.
* **Space administrators** are able to generate resource consumption but they will not induce any change in the resource mappings of a resource pool. They are additionally able to see detailed usage of their own spaces as well as redacted information about other spaces in the resource pool.
* **Organization faculty** are able to create new spaces, thus implicitly change \(by adding more objects\) to the resource pool mapping, however they may not explicitly re-map resources between resource pools.
* **Organization managers** are able to create new spaces, thus implicitly change \(by adding more objects\) to the resource pool mapping, however they may not explicitly re-map resources between resource pools.
* **Resource pool managers** are able to check and modify the resource mapping of the resource pool as well as get information about the space administrators of spaces they might be interested in.

{% hint style="info" %}
New resource pools can only be created by the Nuvolos support. Please reach out to us via intercom to originate a new resource pool.
{% endhint %}





